In this lecture, you'll learn about the cloud service models, the NIST define free service models
of how cloud services can be offered.
In the same document that I was talking about earlier when we were talking about the cloud characteristics.
So the three service models are IATSE, which is infrastructure as a service, Piast, which is platform
as a service, and Asheesh, which is software as a service.
And I'll cover what the three of them are and how they differ from each other.
In Mwencha, large cloud service providers will offer multiple models, not just one.
Small providers might specialize in just one just offer up.
But large providers like Amazon Web Services and IBM, Accenture will offer all three.
The three models define where the customer and provider areas of responsibility are and at what level
the customer gains access and the three models build on top of one another, you'll see how that works.
We see the sites tool for figuring out where the customer and provider responsibility is.
We need to understand what the different levels are first.
So let's look at the data center stock down at the bottom.
We've got the actual facility, which is the building, the power and the cooling and security staff,
et cetera.
On top of that, we've got the network infrastructure hardware.
Then we've got the storage, infrastructure, hardware, the computer hardware, which is the physical
servers.
Then we've got the hypervisor, which is the software that runs on top of most physical servers.
On top of the hypervisor, we've got the virtual machine operating systems, then we've got the applications
and then finally we've got the data.
So where is the bill, the line of where is the provider responsibility and where is the customer responsibility?
Well, if you've got your own on premises solution, obviously his new provider is just you see you
looking it from the point of view of your customer.
You're going to be managing everything obviously within on premises solution.
And that's not a cloud solution.
Cool new solution.
The provider is going to provide the facility and there's going to be a bit of a mix between whose responsibility
it is for the network where the provider is going to provide incoming network connections.
You'll have your own network infrastructure equipment in there, you'll have your own firewalls, etc..
So some of that is the provider, some of it is you.
Everything on top of the facility and the network is going to be your responsibility.
So with on premises and cool solutions, you buy and maintain all of your infrastructure hardware.
You buy that as an upfront capex cost again on premises.
And Coolmore are not cloud solutions.
You look at the cloud solutions and infrastructure as a service offering.
With this, the provider is providing the facility.
They're providing all of the underlying hardware infrastructure as well.
So the network infrastructure, all the years, all of his switches is going to be provided, owned
and managed by the provider.
The same for the storage infrastructure and the computer hardware as well.
The hypervisor will also be owned and maintained by the service provider.
Now, there can be a bit of a gray area here.
It is possible with some providers that you can install and manage your own hypervisor.
As far as this Shishani exam is concerned, if you get a question about this, then the hypervisor is
the provider responsibility, everything on top of the hypervisor.
So the operating system, the applications and the data is going to be installed and managed by the
customer and the customer gets access to the operating system level.
So let's see how this works.
I'll go back onto Amazon Web Services.
You remember from the earlier lecture in this section where I showed you how to provision a new virtual
machine.
Now let's look at how I would actually access via virtual machine once it is up and running.
So I can see here's my instance here.
I can click on the connect button and from in there I can get the connection information, including
a remote desktop file.
So I've already downloaded to my downloads folder.
So I'll go there now and I'll open up this connection to my virtual machine and my password in there.
And it's going to open up this deep connection and you're going to see that I'm going to get in to the
desktop on this window server 2012 virtual machine that I provisioned earlier on.
What I can do now is I can go and install my own applications.
I can save my own data on here.
I can configure the server.
However, I want it to be configured to deal with IAEA as the provider is providing the underlying infrastructure.
That's why it's called infrastructure.
As a service, I get in the desktop web with the operating system and I can configure and manage everything
upwards from there.
OK, let's go back onto the swines.
So the next one to cover is platform as a service, which goes up one level, too, if we go back inside,
slide with infrastructure as a service customer gets in the operating system, Wambo and its operating
system level and above, which is managed by the customer with platform as a service, the operating
system is managed by the provider and it's the applications and they are managed by the customer.
This doesn't really tell the whole story through.
So this site here, if you got anything on the exam, this is how your platform as a service works.
But it's easier if we look at it like this.
So with platform as a service, it's typically used for developing software and the provider will provide
a custom environment that it makes it easy for your developers to develop software in there.
So all of the underlying infrastructure is managed by the provider.
As a customer, you don't see that at all.
OK, so the operating system is managed by the provider.
You get in a custom environment and label, which is purpose built for building applications.
You can build your applications on there and then you can manage.
You're doing the as the customer.
So let's have a look at an example of that.
And I will go back to my Web browser and scan another tab at IBM here.
And you can see the IBM also offer infrastructure as a service offerings.
One way that they differentiate from us is we don't just offer virtual servers.
They offer Bermel dedicated servers as well.
If you look further down at the bulimics platform offerings vs our platform as a service to the cloud
foundry ops, you see that you can get into this purpose built environment for Python, for Ruby, etc.,
and you can develop your own applications in there, a benefit you can get from this.
If we look back at that ecommerce application we've been using throughout this section, let's say that
you need to develop that e-commerce application.
Well, if you use platform as a service, usually it's going to have plug ins there that you can pool
into your own application like plug ins for e like payment systems and things like that.
So rather than you having to write the entire code from scratch, you get this custom environment and
you can pull pieces of code in to build your own applications and it accelerates the process of doing
so.
So that is platform as a service of the three types.
Platform as a service is probably the least well known and the least used to it.
We've covered IATSE on PBS.
That leaves the last one, which is software as a service.
With software as a service, this is really the opposite of on premises where the provider is managing
everything provider manages all the way from the facility, all the way up to the data.
An example of software as a service would be something like Microsoft Office 365.
So, you know, you can install office programs like Word and Excel on your own laptop and run it from
there.
You can also run it in the cloud as well.
So rather than installing anything in your laptop, you can connect over your interconnect Internet
connection through a Web browser and you can mine you can access all of your office applications from
there.
Other examples of software as a service would be Salesforce.com, things like that.
It's where you access software directly from a web portal rather than having to install and manage it
yourself.
OK, so those were the different cloud offerings and you get access at the application level with software
as a service, right.
For this lecture.
So see you in the next one for some more cloud.